---
layout: post
title:  "71 days till applications due: a retro of what happend"
date:   2020-09-21 00:00:00 -0500
categories: gradapps grfp
---

# Why I Haven't Posted In a While/Self-Pity

I haven't posted on this blog for close to 13 days. In a way, I haven't really done much over those 13 days.

13 days lost. 

In a way, that feels kinda like a monumental failure, as though I should have spent that time researching more for grad apps. For example, if there were 30 days left and I spent 13 days doing close to nothing, that would definitely feel quite terrible. yet, this far out before applications are due, it's still hard to imagine, especially without any external deadline or someone I can work with to guage my progress. It reminds me of when I go running with a group vs when I go running alone. By myself, I don't feel as motivated, necessarily due to the fact that I can go as fast or as slow as I feel like. With a group, even if everyone matches pace, I have this need to try to get ahead.

I don't really have a good defense, to be fair for why I didn't do much work in these 13 days. The best I would be able to muster up is that the last few months have been surprisingly hard and even as I work a full time job, I want to be able to relax. It's not a really convincing argument, as looking through the amount of time I spent working these past 13 days, its around the same as the standard 40 hour work week (a bit more, and tbh I don't count snack/bio breaks, lunch breaks, etc as part of the time.)

# What did I spend those 13 days on?
I'm not much for self pity. And to be fair, I didn't completely waste time. I have the outlines and skeletons of a personal statement for the GRFP completed, and most of a research proposal draft done (both are close to or have hit the 2 page requirement). They both still require a fair amount of work, and I have another research proposal idea in my head I still want to flesh out. 

I've also worked on some notes of possible advisors I want to contact to ask about work and if they are taking grad students this admissions cycle. The work for both wasn't particularly hard, as they are really rough drafts, and probably represent the equivalent work of about 5 or 6 days. I suppose I should email some of the professors, though I honestly have the heevie-jeevies about cold-emailing folks who might end up becoming my boss; there's a certain sense of formality there that feels quite hard to get over.

So, honestly, it's closer to a week's worth of missing work. This weeks worth of work was spent reading various books (The Hate You Give is an amazing novel), spending more time exercising, and playing video games (I finally got an ending for Hollow Knight, though the game has several more endings if I want to consider those.)

# Why did this happen

The deadlines I put on myself weren't hard deadlines. I keep track of them on a Kanban style board linked to a calendar, but the goals went and passed without my being able to keep them. I tried to shift them over by a few days to give myself more time, but the issue was that Kanban boards are most useful when managing multiple people. For figuring out the single most important task to be doing at any one time, Kanban boards can probably help too, but in a way, it's hard to assess the importance of some of the tasks I put up. For example, I tried to tell myself to review 5 more GRFP applications to take notes and figure out how to replicate some of the most important features, but fundamentally additional reviews wouldn't really have a material impact on the application I was planning to write in my head. The goal didn't have a material impact on the main goal.

I also don't have an overarching timeline of what needs to be done by when, which is problematic. I need reviews and help from folks, and some of these folks have schedules that are harder to deal with, so I need to give them time. 

Another issue is that I'm doing a lot of work for this at late night. Even now, its 1:38 AM. Doing some of this work feels significantly harder right now due to the general level of grogginess. I also placed deadlines for tasks too close to each other, such that it felt one had to complete before the other, when in reality I was spending time on multiple tasks.

# Lessons
In a way, this is almost like a self-motivated project and in a way it reveals a few things I need to consider for myself. I've spent a long time working on projects which have had much more direct input from others, so this is a bit exciting. My learnings for myself are:

1. Goals must have a clear and direct connection to either the GRFP or applications. They cannot waste time.
2. Goals need not have a clear progression of deadlines (i.e. one after another), but they should build towards some preplanned timeline (TBD).
3. Goals need to be done one at a time and can't be done late at night.
4. The Kanban board I built for tracking my progress is still useful, of course, but splitting smaller task from the larger goals isn't a hugely important thing to do. If need be, just do it. No need to update, you're the only one who needs to worry about it.


I'm heading off to bed. Gonna try tomorrow to fix this.
